manual/setup-geku.md, before:

Instructions for manually setting up a node on Ephemery using geth and teku.

### Prerequisites

[Install golang](https://go.dev/doc/install) for your system.

Then:
```
sudo apt install -y git default-jre make gcc
```

### Download config

```
mkdir testnet-all
cd testnet-all
```

Download the `testnet-all.tar.gz` file for the [latest release of the Ephemery testnet](https://github.com/ephemery-testnet/ephemery-genesis/releases) to this directory using `wget`. Then unzip inside this folder.
```
tar -xzf testnet-all.tar.gz
```

### Generate jwt

```
openssl rand -hex 32 | tr -d "\n" > "/tmp/jwtsecret"
```

### Execution Layer

Download and build software:
```
cd ~
git clone https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum.git
cd go-ethereum
make geth
```
Initialise:
```
cd ~
./go-ethereum/build/bin/geth init --datadir "datadir-geth" ~/testnet-all/genesis.json
```
Run:
```
./go-ethereum/build/bin/geth \
     --networkid {networkID} \
     --syncmode=full \
     --port 30303 \
     --http \
     --datadir "datadir-geth" \
     --authrpc.jwtsecret=/tmp/jwtsecret \
     --bootnodes {bootnodes}
```

For `{bootnodes}` look in ~/testnet-all/boot_enode.txt. Entries must be separated,by,commas and "enclosed in quotes".

For `{networkID}` look for `chainId` in ~/testnet-all/genesis.json

### Consensus Layer

Open a new terminal session.

Download and build software:
```
cd ~
git clone https://github.com/ConsenSys/teku.git
cd teku
./gradlew installDist
```
Run:
```
./teku/build/install/teku/bin/teku \
    --network ~/testnet-all/config.yaml \
    --initial-state ~/testnet-all/genesis.ssz \
    --data-path "datadir-teku" \
    --ee-endpoint http://localhost:8551 \
    --ee-jwt-secret-file "/tmp/jwtsecret" \
    --log-destination console \
    --p2p-discovery-bootnodes {bootnodes}
```

For `{bootnodes}` look in ~/testnet-all/boot_enr.txt. Entries must be separated,by,commas and "enclosed in quotes".

Commit message:

add: more detail on setup options for users

manual/setup-geku.md, after:

Instructions for manually setting up a node on Ephemery using geth and teku.

### Prerequisites

[Install golang](https://go.dev/doc/install) for your system.

Then:
```
sudo apt install -y git default-jre make gcc
```

### Download config

```
mkdir testnet-all
cd testnet-all
```

Download the `testnet-all.tar.gz` file for the [latest release of the Ephemery testnet](https://github.com/ephemery-testnet/ephemery-genesis/releases) to this directory using `wget`. Then unzip inside this folder.
```
tar -xzf testnet-all.tar.gz
```

### Optional: Generate jwt
If you are generating a jwt (refer to client documentation) the following command will generate a secret to ensure secure communication between the Execution Client and the Consensus client at `/tmp/jwtsecret`. Be mindful that using a jwt may require additional flags to be provided.

```
openssl rand -hex 32 | tr -d "\n" > "/tmp/jwtsecret"
```

### Execution Layer

For Geth you can either download a binary directly, or compile it from the github repository.

If using a binary, ensure to verify it.

Refer to Geth's documentation:

- [Downloads](https://geth.ethereum.org/downloads)

- [Compiling](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum)

To initialise Geth with Ephemery settings, run the following:
```
cd ~
./go-ethereum/build/bin/geth init --datadir "datadir-geth" ~/testnet-all/genesis.json
```

Then, to run Geth:
```
./go-ethereum/build/bin/geth \
     --networkid {networkID} \
     --syncmode=full \
     --port 30303 \
     --http \
     --datadir "datadir-geth" \
     --authrpc.jwtsecret=/tmp/jwtsecret \
     --bootnodes {bootnodes}
```

Modify the paths as needed for your own setup.

For `{bootnodes}` look in ~/testnet-all/boot_enode.txt. Entries must be separated,by,commas and "enclosed in quotes".

For `{networkID}` look for `chainId` in ~/testnet-all/genesis.json

Depending on your OS, it may be necessary to add additional flags, for example `—authrpc.addr 0.0.0.0`; refer to the Geth docs for more details.

### Consensus Layer

Open a new terminal session.

Download and build software:
```
cd ~
git clone https://github.com/ConsenSys/teku.git
cd teku
./gradlew installDist
```
Run:
```
./teku/build/install/teku/bin/teku \
    --network ~/testnet-all/config.yaml \
    --initial-state ~/testnet-all/genesis.ssz \
    --data-path "datadir-teku" \
    --ee-endpoint http://localhost:8551 \
    --ee-jwt-secret-file "/tmp/jwtsecret" \
    --log-destination console \
    --p2p-discovery-bootnodes {bootnodes}
```

For `{bootnodes}` look in ~/testnet-all/boot_enr.txt. Entries must be separated,by,commas and "enclosed in quotes".

### A note on Ephemery environment variables

As an alternative to manually copying and pasting Ephemery variables into the above commands, you can simply source the relevant Ephemery environment variables and load them to the shell session prior to running the clients.
